README.md, before:

  
# gclone

A modified version of the [rclone](//github.com/rclone/rclone)

Implement [donwa/gclone](https://github.com/donwa/gclone) to sync with rclone version

Provide dynamic replacement sa file support for google drive operation


## BUILD

### Prepare

```
#Windows cgo
WinFsp, gcc (e.g. from Mingw-builds)

#macOS
FUSE for macOS, command line tools

#Linux
libfuse-dev, gcc
```

### Step
- _(optional)_ install [cgofuse](https://github.com/billziss-gh/cgofuse)
- build
  ```
  go build -v -tags 'cmount' gclone.go
  ```

### Check

```
./gclone version
```

> if need `mount` function, cgofuse is required, 

## Instructions 
### 1.service_account_file_path Configuration   
add `service_account_file_path` Configuration.For dynamic replacement service_account_file(sa file). Replace configuration when `rateLimitExceeded` error occurs
`rclone.conf` example:  
```
[gc]
type = drive  
scope = drive  
service_account_file = /root/accounts/1.json  
service_account_file_path = /root/accounts/  
root_folder_id = root  
```
`/root/accounts/` Folder contains multiple access and edit permissions ***service account file(*.json)***.  
  
### 2.Support incoming id
If the original rclone is across team disks or shared folders, multiple configuration drive letters are required for operation.
gclone supports incoming id operation
```
gclone copy gc:{folde_id1} gc:{folde_id2}  --drive-server-side-across-configs
```
folde_id1 can be:Common directory, shared directory, team disk. 
  
```
gclone copy gc:{folde_id1} gc:{folde_id2}/media/  --drive-server-side-across-configs

```

```
gclone copy gc:{share_fiel_id} gc:{folde_id2}  --drive-server-side-across-configs
```

### 3.Support command line option `--drive-service-account-file-path`

```
gclone copy gc:{share_fiel_id} gc:{folde_id2} --drive-service-account-file-path=${SOMEWHERE_STORE_SAs}
```
  
## CAVEATS

Creating Service Accounts (SAs) allows you to bypass some of Google's quotas. Tools like autorclone and clonebot (gclone) automatically rotate SAs for continuous multi-terabyte file transfer.

> Quotas SAs **CAN** bypass:

* Google 'copy/upload' quota (750GB/account/day)
* Google 'download' quota (10TB/account/day)

> Quotas SAs **CANNOT** bypass:

* Google Shared Drive quota (~20TB/drive/day)
* Google file owner quota (~2TB/day)

Commit message:

drive: add config `--drive-rolling-sa` `--drive-rolling-count` `--drive-random-pick-sa`

README.md, after:

  
# gclone

A modified version of the [rclone](//github.com/rclone/rclone)

Implement [donwa/gclone](https://github.com/donwa/gclone) to sync with rclone version

Provide dynamic replacement sa file support for google drive operation


## BUILD

### Prepare

```
#Windows cgo
WinFsp, gcc (e.g. from Mingw-builds)

#macOS
FUSE for macOS, command line tools

#Linux
libfuse-dev, gcc
```

### Step
- _(optional)_ install [cgofuse](https://github.com/billziss-gh/cgofuse)
- build
  ```
  go build -v -tags 'cmount' gclone.go
  ```

### Check

```
./gclone version
```

> if need `mount` function, cgofuse is required, 

## Instructions 
### 1.service_account_file_path Configuration   
add `service_account_file_path` Configuration.For dynamic replacement service_account_file(sa file). Replace configuration when `rateLimitExceeded` error occurs
`rclone.conf` example:  
```
[gc]
type = drive  
scope = drive  
service_account_file = /root/accounts/1.json  
service_account_file_path = /root/accounts/  
root_folder_id = root  
```
`/root/accounts/` Folder contains multiple access and edit permissions ***service account file(*.json)***.  
  
### 2.Support incoming id
If the original rclone is across team disks or shared folders, multiple configuration drive letters are required for operation.
gclone supports incoming id operation
```
gclone copy gc:{folde_id1} gc:{folde_id2}  --drive-server-side-across-configs
```
folde_id1 can be:Common directory, shared directory, team disk. 
  
```
gclone copy gc:{folde_id1} gc:{folde_id2}/media/  --drive-server-side-across-configs

```

```
gclone copy gc:{share_fiel_id} gc:{folde_id2}  --drive-server-side-across-configs
```

### 3.Support command line option `--drive-service-account-file-path`

```sh
gclone copy gc:{share_fiel_id} gc:{folde_id2} --drive-service-account-file-path=${SOMEWHERE_STORE_SAs}
```

### 4.Support command line option `--drive-rolling-sa` and `--drive-rolling-count`

```sh
gclone copy gc:{share_fiel_id} gc:{folde_id2} --drive-rolling-sa --drive-rolling-count=1
```

> What is rolling sa?

- This option main for backup large drive, intent for using all sa more balance, not to consume one sa in one time, as I found there's some wired scen when sa was consumed.

> What is rolling count?

- every action in rclone using go routine, actually it is for waitgroup count, same sa will use within action.
By default is 1, not recommand set value over 4, in my test bigger file should with smaller count.

### 5.Support command line option `--drive-random-pick-sa`

```sh
gclone copy gc:{share_fiel_id} gc:{folde_id2} --drive-random-pick-sa --drive-rolling-sa --drive-rolling-count=1
```

- take random sa file from `service account file path` config instead of configed one. Good companion with `rolling sa` config.
  
## CAVEATS

Creating Service Accounts (SAs) allows you to bypass some of Google's quotas. Tools like autorclone and clonebot (gclone) automatically rotate SAs for continuous multi-terabyte file transfer.

> Quotas SAs **CAN** bypass:

* Google 'copy/upload' quota (750GB/account/day)
* Google 'download' quota (10TB/account/day)

> Quotas SAs **CANNOT** bypass:

* Google Shared Drive quota (~20TB/drive/day)
* Google file owner quota (~2TB/day)
